President Eisenhower sent a voice
message from California to New [music]
Jersey.
>> This is President Eisenhower speaking.
It is a great personal satisfaction to
participate in this first experiment in
communications.
>> Up until this point, all communication
around the world had to be done using a
crazy maze of undersea cables. [music]
So, the idea of satellite communication
was mind-blowing. In order to turn Echo
from this into this, it needed to
inflate itself in space. Instead of
carrying its own air, the balloon had
small canisters of benzoic acid, a
special powder that turns straight from
a solid into a gas when exposed to heat.
And so, when the balloon was released
into space, the heat from the sun would
quickly turn it into gas, causing it to
expand inside the balloon. In just a
matter of seconds, this enormous balloon
would be fully inflated. But, having
such a massive object in space made it a
target for micrometeorites. To combat
any small punctures to its skin, Echo 1
carried extra supplies of benzoic acid
that could be released to maintain the
balloon's pressure. Echo 2, on the other
hand, had a better solution. Its skin
was also made of Mylar, but it was
sandwiched between two sheets of
aluminum foil. When the balloon was
pressurized, the foil would get
stretched, causing it to stiffen up and
harden in place. This made the balloon
rigid. Even if micrometeorites hit the
balloon, it would maintain its shape.